Hello, World!

Growing up I was always the nerd. Even before I could read you'd find me thumbing through books, fascinated by schematics of machines I knew nothing of. My curiosity was a beast that would not relent and my desire to create was like a conflagration in a pine forest. Then I found computers.

Let's step back a bit to before I discovered programming. I wanted to build things. As a child I would mix chemicals and herbs to make whatever I thought I was making. I would join electronic components and circuit boards together and plug them in only for them to explode. Being from a home that didn't have much to begin with I had not the luxury of buying all those DIY electronics kits so I made do with digging through dumps to acquire the components I needed. 

I discovered computer programming from a book (Computers In Education) that I recieved from a friend of mine back in primary school. In it was a chapter that talked about the Logo programming language. I became obsessed with that single chapter and set about memorizing the Logo commands. Bear in mind that at this point I had no idea how to use a computer beyond the Minesweeper and Word of Microsoft Windows 98. I couldn't even imagine the interface on which I would type these Logo commands. That did no matter. I wrote down some Logo programs on paper, imagining the output in my head. That book was always on hand wherever I went. I remember taking it to church one Sunday and opening the Logo chapter when the pastor instructed us to turn to a particular verse.

After Logo came Assembly. I do not know what type of Assembly it was but I copied it off a webpage and wrote it on paper. It was code to make a dollar sign ($) appear in the corner of the screen. I never ran this code and had no idea how to run it as I still was computer illeterate. I was in grade seven when my sister's then boyfriend and now husband bought her a smartphone...a Huawei Y220. She then left her Nokia C1 to me and it became my point of contact with the Internet. There I discovered ASCII while reading about Donald Knuth's Literal Programming. I remember being so excited that I copied the entire table down. Even as I write this I have a handwritten copy of the American Standard Code for Information Interchange copied from my original copy from ten years ago. I went on surfing the web till I found C. This is when I can say I finally understood what programming was.

There is a lie I always tell. When I'm asked why I chose Woodwork as a practical subject in secondary school instead of Computers I say that the Computers class was full. In truth, I was intimidated by the large group of kids that were standing in the Computers line. Extreme introvert, right? I chose Woodwork simply because the line had two or three people. But I still studied programming. I would go to the internet cafe and download documents on C programming. Since I had no computer at home I would speed-read them at the cafe before my time ran out(it was $1 per hour) and then go practice what I read on paper since I still didn't know how to code on an actual computer. My head was my IDE, compiler, and runtime environment. All through form 1 to 3 I was the weird kid who wrote weird stuff on paper. Other kids would ask what I was doing only to shrug when I explained. A few of the Computers class students understood though they were limited by the syllabus. 

The first time I actually ran a program was in 2016 when my sister's husband lent me his laptop for a few days. My first "Hello, World!" wasn't in C is you probably expected. I failed to configure Code::Blocks and it kept saying gcc not found. I ended up running my first program in Python 2. The feeling was unlike no other. Granted it was just one line that printed "Hello, World", but it was one line that said, "Hello, World. I did that!". Hello, world I made this machine do something. Hello, world I am a creator. Hello, world, I am a programmer.
